[Music]
well get ready for a crash course about
the cosmos astronomers believe that in
4.5 billion years a powerful galactic
collision will occur and we or our
descendants will have a chance to see it
the Milky Way galaxy which is the home
to our solar system and the very planet
we live on will collide with the
Andromeda galaxy sounds exciting right
but it looks like it won't be the first
time that the Milky Way collides with
another galaxy but let's start from the
very beginning bang no not that far back
in 2018 the European Space Agency
finally released the most detailed map
of the Milky Way galaxy and the
neighboring stars all this became
possible thanks to the gaya mission
which is a super precise Space Telescope
it was launched in December 2013 with
the ambitious purpose to draw a 3d map
of our galaxy
since the telescope started its work
it's collected tons of information
cataloged over a billion stars and
calculated the distance and the motion
range of more than two million stars but
that's not all in 2018 astronomers were
scratching their heads looking at new
data received from the gaya mission it
seemed like the telescope had just
discovered a new galaxy orbiting the
Milky Way it was named ant Lea - and
baffled astronomers - no in first the
newly discovered galaxy was incredibly
huge it's about the size of a large
magellanic cloud another satellite
galaxy of the Milky Way which reaches a
whopping 14 thousand light-years across
but at the same time the ant Lea 2 is
very faint 10000 times fainter than the
Large Magellanic Cloud on top of that
it's extremely diffused and well hidden
by the Galactic disk which might be the
reason why it hadn't been detected for
so long but it seems I'm getting ahead
of myself once again hmm the thing is
that galaxies get orbited by other
smaller galaxies just like planets get
orbited by their moons and stars get
orbited by planets our home galaxy the
Milky Way
so has several of its own orbiters
unfortunately the only satellites you
can see with the naked eye are the large
and small Magellanic Clouds as I've
already said ant Lea 2 is too faint for
you or even the most experienced
astronomer to spot but it might have
influenced the Milky Way much more than
scientists previously thought
recently a new study claimed that the
very same ant Lea 2 is responsible for
bizarre ripples disturbing the hydrogen
gas in the Milky Way's outer disk the
astronomers who conducted the research
believed that the disturbances you can
see these days could have been produced
when the Milky Way collided with an
Thalia to hundreds of millions of years
ago by the way even though astronomers
have known about the ripples for several
years thanks to gaya they managed to see
this phenomenon in greater detail on the
other hand before the space telescope
transferred the information about its
discoveries to earth scientists didn't
connect the Milky Way's hydrogen gas
activity with ant Lea to nope there were
other theories in 2009 astrophysicists
Sukanya chakrabarti and her colleagues
concluded that there was a dwarf galaxy
located right in the area where aunt Lea
2 was later discovered then after the
new data was received the team
calculated the trajectory aunt Lea 2 was
bound to have in the past they conducted
several simulations and voila these
simulations produced not only the
current position of the dwarf galaxies
but also the ripples caused by the
collision of the two galaxies before
this research another group of
scientists had stated that the
agitations on the outskirts of the Milky
Way resulted from our galaxy's
interaction with another of its
satellites the Sagittarius dwarf
spheroidal galaxies whoo what a name I'm
not saying that again but later it
turned out that the gravity of the long
name I won't say galaxy wasn't strong
enough to cause the ripples or influence
our galaxy in any other way on top of
that it seems that over time the Milky
Way has absorbed loads of the material
ant Lea 2 consists of admittedly some of
this material could be transferred via
interactions of the dwarf galaxy with
the Milky Way but the rest of the
material could have been absorbed by our
galaxy when the two collided about 1
billion years ago if this theory turns
out to be accurate astronomers around
the world will be over the moon yeah
that's a pun and no wonder this way
they'll be able to trace the history of
ant Leah - and probably get some answers
- the Dark Matter questioned the dwarf
galaxies weird diffuse stage can mean
that there's dark matter present in that
region if it's true the region is likely
to turn into a unique space laboratory
for earth scientists to play it but in
any case the next time gaya will release
new information is in about a year or
two when it happens astronomers will
hopefully be able to draw the final
conclusions but let's talk about the
collision that according to astronomers
is yet to happen in several billion
years or so at least we have some time
to brace for the impact there might be
not one but two galactic collisions and
the first is likely to happen around two
billion years from now when the Milky
Way collides with a Large Magellanic
Cloud this spiral of stars and dust is
hanging out there somewhere 200 thousand
light years away from our galaxy
and although right now you have nothing
to worry about in approximately two
billion years the two celestial bodies
are likely to collide so put that down
on your calendar I think it's a Tuesday
and what have you it's going to be
imagine the Milky Way nearing the
smaller galaxy the supermassive black
hole residing in the center of our
galaxy wakes up and starts to gobble up
the LMC stars and gas clouds with eerie
enthusiasm thanks to this new food the
hole grows eight times bigger than it is
now and probably even turns into a
quasar which is one of the brightest
things you can find in the universe here
on earth people are standing still
dumbstruck by the sheer beauty of this
phenomenon cosmic fireworks are coloring
the sky and our newly awakened black
hole is emitting long Jets of super
bright radiation
if the black hole does turn into a
quasar it'll be an even more
breathtaking view the thing about these
celestial bodies is that their light can
be up to ten thousand times brighter
than the light coming from the whole
Milky Way galaxy that's why the Earth's
night sky might get a new shiny
decoration but that won't be the end of
it the newly born quasar will get rid of
some stars and send others flying
billions of miles away from their orbits
as a result all the constellations as we
know them will disappear from the sky
after the familiar stars get too far
away from us to see with the naked eye
but hey don't get so upset the good news
is that the collisions and the potential
appearance of a quasar will have no
effect on our planet what's more even
the quasars radiation won't manage to
disturb the Peace of the solar system
and the chances that the Sun will get
knocked out of the Milky Way are
infinitesimal which means very small but
how about the collision with the
Andromeda galaxy will our solar system
survive this catastrophe as well
well right now the Andromeda galaxy is
nearing the Milky Way at a speed of 68
miles per second as you may guess it's
very hard to figure out the actual speed
and until 2012 researchers hadn't been
sure if the collision was going to
happen or not unfortunately it turned
out that we had to prepare for the
appearance of the milk dromeda or milk
Amida a structural new galaxy consisting
of the merged Andromeda and Milky Way on
the other hand such collisions aren't
something out of the ordinary if you
consider the super long lifespans of the
galaxies besides even though the Milky
Way is home to more than 300 billion
stars and the andromeda galaxy contains
more than a trillion the chances of
several stars colliding during the
galaxies merge are really low the reason
for that is simple stars are located too
far away from each other
for instance the closest to our Sun star
Proxima Centauri is more than 4.2
light-years away which is about 30
million diameters of our Sun in simpler
terms if the Sun were the size of a
ping-pong ball
Proxima Centauri would be the size of a
pea located 680 miles away and the
entire Milky Way would be 19 million
miles wide as for other stars
can you imagine ping-pong balls hanging
in space every two miles
great now you have a miniature model of
our galaxy anyway returning to the
collision with the Andromeda galaxy
there's a 50% possibility that it would
move our solar system three times
farther from the galactic core than it
is now but if 4.5 billion years from now
there's still some life on our planet it
won't be affected by the collisions in
any way and if that becomes a problem
for you then come see me and we'll work
something out but we're gonna be really
old now it's your turn what are your
ideas about the collision of the Milky
Way with another galaxy let me know down
in the comments if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
get all starstruck just yet we have over
2,000 cool videos for you to check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
the right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]